Hi everyone.
Today is Thursday, May the 21st and this
is the Money Ball Morning Report. Charts
by TrendSpider, gamma flows by Menter Q
and
news by Benzinga Pro. Of course, our
data analytics all come from
tradewave.ai
for each day. Okay, so what are we
staring down?
Take a look at this stopping formation.
was the number I set yesterday as the
potential high in the range. We can see
that that supply zone did take over, but
this sharp move down feels a little
newsy. So, the question might be, what
gives? We bounced right off the pivot
last time
and now we have these flows that push us
back into the base of the range.
So, what do we do? Well, dips are buys,
okay? Now, as I mentioned yesterday,
dips can be deep
and so we want to watch for those.
The volume for [snorts] May the 19th
looks like the largest volume
in recent time. However, May the 15th
still is the dominant candle flow. It's
got the biggest lines and that is why I
had this as the general topping
formation.
So, now what do we do? Well, we probably
have got ourselves some sort of dip
action sitting right around this area.
Now, how well it holds at 7420 remains
to be seen, but what we do see in the ES
is
price action that looks a little bit
um weak.
So, what does that mean? Take a look at
what happens with every run-up
over the last couple of days.
Particularly last 5 days or so. Now,
Nvidia used to be the market savior and
listen, they reported yesterday
great numbers.
Earnings beat, revenue beat, forward
guidance,
everything looks amazing and the stock
still fell. Now, for those of us in the
Benzinga Pro platform, you know we
talked about this, we talked about drift
and um if you saw my video with earnings
watcher, we talked about the last four
events in uh the last three events, this
makes the fourth in the earning cycle
for Nvidia where they beat, they sound
incredible,
>> [clears throat]
>> but
the market sells off. And so, option
sellers for the win.
It's always kind of a scary thing to bet
against Nvidia in one direction or
another.
And so, maybe a lot of us don't
participate that way, but it really is
doing
exactly what it said it was going to do.
So, what do we expect here? We've got an
upward 50,
an upward VWAP. We're sitting above the
pivot. Momentum really told the tale
that we would have the rejection up top
here.
Watching momentum is
it's a tough thing, right? Especially if
you're staring down trend and all of
that, but a consistent drift down as
prices move up do tell us that our prior
mechanical flows from watching the
region
are likely to hold. And you can see that
big bounce that we're watching right off
the pivot, right off the 200 back into
the box. So, do we stay in the box? If
we do stay in the box, we will head up
back to the top of the box.
If we don't stay in the box, we're going
to drift down into these lower edges,
potentially all the way down to 7375.
Zero DTE put wall 7350.
The big put wall 7200. So, that has sort
of slipped.
The call wall still 7500.
Um and
the big gamma wall 7530 for now. So,
what do we look at? Dips or buys? We
want to see how well it resolves here
between 7415
and 7420. Up above 7425,
we run back into 7440 and 7462.
Let's take a look at the NQ.
So,
uh volume from the 15th is still the
volume to watch. The motion, however, a
bit more jagged.
Right? Top of the box, you can see it's
leaving that edge at 29,300,
thereabouts.
We've also got an overlap and
prior areas of congestion. And those
prior areas of congestion
really give us
a resistance zone. Now, here's the thing
about working with the NQ. It's going to
expand up over critical levels,
shake the trees,
and then
>> [clears throat]
>> break.
And so, a lot of traders get caught in
these sort of things trading the NQ, but
remember, this is what the NQ does. It
breaks through, shakes out all the weak
handed shorts,
brings [snorts] in the longs,
and then
shakes the longs out as they come into
the edge because the longs are thinking,
"Hey, higher low, higher low, higher
low."
Higher high, higher high, higher high,
and so they think it's going to break
when really it's just shaking the trees.
How do you know? Look to the left
and watch that formation. They're doing
it again. Where Where they stop? They
stopped at the anchored VWAP, which is
and who is they? Majority of traders,
the ones who are controlling price flows
at this time. So, they stopped at 29,190
or so. The pivot is still below us as
support.
The 200 is below us as support, but it
is trending downward. So,
this area is going to be
a potential do or die zone for the
traders simply because we are watching
see if they can recover the VWAP. That's
over 29,300.
If not,
if they can't get above the VWAP and
stay there,
we're going to have a drip that drip
down volume area low. That's 29,150.
Right there at the pivot and then back
to 29,000 and the levels we had from
yesterday. The put wall is all the way
up here
at
28,900.
That's pretty close, right? Supply zone
above us 29,500.
If we break through,
that's going to put the shorts on the
back foot and
they'll have to buy to get out of their
positions and that pushes us up into
26,640.
40. Now, we remember yesterday in the
pre-market, we had a tremendous amount
of buying at the 4:00 a.m. candlestick
That's still important.
That's still important and all of that
um buying is providing a pretty nice
floor and that floor
probably sitting at around 29,070.
Something to watch. We could see a very
sideways day ahead.
All right, let's take a look at the YM.
Whoa.
All right, big volume candle. We have it
meshed from day prior, days prior.
That's the 14th. So, they were a day
early in terms of when the flow kicked
in.
And look at what they did. They came to
the top of the box
and rejected it very cleanly. Notice
momentum. Momentum tells us, "Hang on,
we got a problem up here."
Those flows are very
uh divergent, and so we must anticipate
some sort of topping formation. Could
you have put a sell order up here at
50,250?
Yes.
It could have run you
uh out of the room.
Or you could have gone very small size
and been in good shape. Take a look at
where we are. We're trying to bounce off
the 50. It's going to be noisy.
But, it is the bottom of the flows, and
so we should with an upward sloping 50,
we should try to bounce. Now, could it
be we're going to test the pivot at
49,800
30? Old resistance, new support,
potentially yes. So, what do you want to
do? You want to step out to the side
or go very small size here and wait for
them to recapture that edge. This would
be a dangerous place to buy, but what
you're looking for is a floor of support
that has existed in times prior.
If it breaks, it could be a savage break
that bounces.
This is what we notice. We are in very
volatile markets. We're going to have
bounces up
and fades down that are still bought.
This is the same environment. We have an
anchored VWAP down here at 49,700
50.
Really important line to watch. And
then,
old resistance, new support at 29,695.
Just read an article
>> [clears throat]
>> that said hedge funds are very I don't
know what just happened to my voice,
folks. I
It's crazy.
>> [clears throat]
>> Pardon me.
Flows
hedge funds are packing in
very negative flows for the next 30
days. Are they getting in front of it?
Yes.
Um could they get run out of the
building in a squeeze? Yes.
It all depends, right? But they are
hedging negative, and their pockets are
probably deep enough to handle it. Let's
take a look at liquidity.
Here we are taking a look at Bitcoin.
That's how I measure liquidity.
This is doing exactly
what I suspected. I said, "Hey, listen,
78,000, that's going to be the area.
They've got to get up over there and
stay there." Now, what does get up over
there and stay there mean?
Well, not this,
obviously. But, if you were enthusiastic
because you're
uh
a Bitcoin lover,
>> [clears throat]
>> and you get long on a pullback here that
is
um a pullback into a higher low, and you
take a long, the big thing to watch for
is
am I making higher highs
with my wicks and my my candle bodies?
This tells us no.
This kind of information tells us,
"Listen,
we're trying to base, but nobody's got
the energy to break out, nobody's got
the energy to break down." So, what do
you want to do?
You look at the space and go, "If I were
to break down, where would I go?" That
would be the 50. If I were to break out,
where would I go?
That would be through the top of the
gapping formation, okay? At 78,726.
Where are we now?
At a support floor.
Okay, my mouse is dead.
We're at a support floor. So, is this a
buy zone? Yes.
Yes, it is.
Why? Well, because we've got upward
flows here.
We just lost this moving average and
this is prior support. So, the traders
are going to try and bounce through this
zone.
Could they stall out right here at
77,000? Yes.
Could they move to 77,200?
Yes.
So, if you're long, your only thought
is, well, I better not break the floor.
That's all I care about. I don't want it
to break the floor.
And that's what we will stare down,
right? As long as it holds 77,000
or so, you're in great shape.
You know what I mean?
So,
that's I got to plug in my mouse. That
is definitely what we need to watch.
Could take a while to get out from
there. If we break down, we've got
76,000 as the floor. There is a lot of
demand down here. 76,500
is value area low. And so, that could
easily be the line in the sand that we
want to watch.
Let's go to oil.
I think we're in the end contract, yes?
Yes. Okay, very big slide off. What did
this come from? Um
something like we're near an Iran deal.
Okay, so
and we hear this every day. What are
What are we going to do, right?
We We know that it is very important for
the administration to keep oil prices
down and
you know, working through this
cesspool of noise is going to be
something that oil traders particularly
have to watch out for. Where's value
area low? It's 101.
Now, notice what's going on.
Big volume took over yesterday. So, the
new boxes
Let's remove all of these rectangles.
Yes. We have a new box to look at.
And that box is
up here.
Right? So, notice
we have the downward flow.
Stopped shy into all of this demand.
It broke my ledge that I said 98 was
there. So, it broke the ledge and then
recovered.
Here's the real line in the sand today.
97.45.
Now, if it breaks, we've got the put
wall below.
And then
we have the pivot at 95.90.
We've got a deep gamma line below.
But, there's also a lot of demand at
around 94.
So, between 94-95, we've got some
motion. What's trend? Well, we've got an
upward 200. So, we know that if we break
it, we are likely to retest it. We've
got a downward 50.
So,
if we break it, which we have, we are
likely to retest it.
Looks to me like we might have some
sideways motion. We have initial claims
at
8:30 Eastern.
Who knows how that'll turn out, but
those are ahead.
The job market
you know, sticky. We had Target reports.
We've had Walmart's. I think they report
after
the close today. I don't remember. Those
are going to give us real room to look
at the
retailer in general. And
everyone knows they're just pulling in
just a little bit across the board. I
don't really I mean, I I do know a
number of people that just are spending
like they've always spent, but for most
folks, there is a cautionary
uh
there's a cautionary slant to whatever
they are doing. So, this will be
interesting how it comes out.
We'll see. Upward flows into 103.
Downward flows into 95.
It's a crosscurrent, so dips are going
to be buys, bounces are going to be
sells. Just wait for the tops of the
formation, and remember that we are
sitting inside of
this box.
So, that 50% range at about 101.20
is a really good spot to look at above
below, and right now they're rejecting
it. If they come back in and hold the
pivot at around 99.50,
maybe $100.20,
it could be a pretty solid buy, but
that's a messy space.
Okay, let's take a look at gold.
Gold, bounces are still sell zones.
We bounced into the 200.
45.60.
That was a great test. I mean, on the
money for us yesterday.
Pre-market, it moved above 49.70. My
thought is, if we come back and breach
45.60 again, we are probably going to
accelerate into this edge. Remember, the
bounces are still going to be sells.
Why? Because the 200 is down.
Flows are down here, and so did we just
break an upward 50? Yes, we've done it
twice. So, we break it, but we cannot
seem to break above
and stay there. So, that's going to be
the breach that says, "Hey, if these two
moving averages collide, I'm going to
move to the top of my range potentially
at 4582
to 4600. If per happenstance, I cannot
get up over 4540
and stay there, I will come back down
into the pool wall at 4475
4460.
Finally, we'll take a look at spy.
Bounces, still selling, right?
Big
closing candle formation, but let's see
our volume.
Hm.
Looks
like
It's really hard to say.
We have a lot of similar volumes sitting
around here.
And that gives us flows
that
still hold this box right here in
general. Right?
So, the flows bring us the support at
738,
the ceiling at 742
to 743, which we hit, came right into
supply,
>> [clears throat]
>> just jammed us up
right there at 743. If we break out,
we've got a run, right? This gigantic
wick here
is going to deliver
the next push to the upside. Look at
There's no volume sitting here. The
market really does not
love vacuums. They like to go in and
auction there.
But sometimes it takes a long time for
that vacuum to fill. Okay? We might not
have the strength to do it at this
juncture. The 200 is flat. That means
we've got above and below.
Our 50 is slightly up. Our VWAP is all
over the place, but in general trending
higher. So dips are going to be buys.
Notice momentum again telling us the
upside pressure likely to fade into
support. What's the ideal buy?
You know, 734, 735. That's ideal in this
space.
But they could be making a run for it
here at 738. All right, folks. That's
it. Take care. I'll see you on the
streams.